APPENDIX TO BOOK XVI

Gaul, the Arverni, Aedui, and Sequani, and was offering the princi-
pate to Galba, legatus of Hispania Tarraconensis. Galba had but
one legion, and Vindex's 100,000 men were not Roman citizens;
much therefore depended on the action of the legions of Germany.
Verginius Rufus, legatus of the Upper Province, marched on
Vesontio and there held a conference with Vindex. Through some
misunderstanding, Verginius' men attacked the army of Vindex,
killing 20,000 and dispersing the rest, on which Vindex slew him-
self. Verginius returned to his province, and refused to allow
either himself or anyone else to be proclaimed emperor, except by
nomination of senate and people.

At Rome, Nero's half-hearted and feeble attempts to cope with
the reported insurrection were frustrated by the action of Nymphi-
dius Sabinus, Tigellinus' colleague in the command of the prae—
torians. He persuaded them by a promise of 3o,000 sesterces per
man in Galba's name, and by a story that Nero had fled to Egypt,
to give their support to Galba.

Nero found himself deserted by his body-guard, and fied to a villa
of one of his sreedmen, distant about four miles from Rome. The
senate, emboldened by the decision of the praetorians in favour of
Galba, proclaimed the latter emperor, and sentenced Nero to death,
‘more maiorum ¹.'

To avoid capture by the soldiers sent to take him, Nero com-
mitted suicide, June 9.

¹ For the meaning of this sentence, cf. note on xiv 48, 4.

